Now you seem to be describing a campus which was
comparatively free of bias and prejudice. Is that
correct? Well, I would say that there was no overt
conduct of that nature.
Because, I mean, I think being an Aggie was very
important to everybody. It's more or less when you
group people together, and I had always felt a part
of the Aggie family. I think there had been, most of
the wrath that came at that time, again, given the
historical perspective, was a lot from the core
versus the non-rag. And so... We had heard that
there were students who were being quadded on San
Jacinto Day, which was a day, as you know, where Sam
Houston defeated Santa Ana. And it was done along
the same kind of line of the quadding they did when
if it was your birthday or if it was some other day.
So some of us kind of felt uncomfortable about
that.
I don't think that we, you saw a, I never saw the
Confederate flag flown, not that that represents
any kind of bigotry or any kind of negative
feeling. But you never saw people using, at least I
never heard, derogatory terms about African
Americans or Hispanics. It was just an air of
disconnectedness, and I think that was what was
happening. I don't think that the administration
fully, fully understood that as these cultures
were coming together, especially during the 60s,
late 60s, and there was a whole segment of the
community across the state that was saying,
Hispanics, you are, assert your rights, assert
your rights. Well, that's going to impact
students. I don't think that there was a sense in
the administration to say, We need to be doing
something to transition or to make sure that
there's some connectivity. I think as we began to
raise these concerns, the university responded
by saying, OK, well, if you're committed to an
organization of this sort, we'll work with you.
And of course, they funded that. And it's still in
existence. It's been in existence over 25 years.
Did you ever experience either an intentional or
unintentional verbal misstatement, ethnic
statement, by a faculty member, say, in a class or a
lecture? Do you remember anything anybody said?
No. No, I didn't. It's interesting because I did
later as a graduate student, but not as an
undergrad.
But as an undergrad, never. Because I think there
was a, and I think this professor who used the word
wetback in one of his classes, he was not using it,
he was using it in a, it was a wage and salary class,
and he was, we were describing contract labor, we
were describing how you determine wages and
salaries, and he said, Well, this assumed a case
study in XYZ, and he says, now, none of these are
wetbacks, meaning, in his mind, they're not just
being hired off the street or without any kind of
rules. He was trying to say it in a clinical
context, but I later on found out he was not a Texan,
and I think he had picked up the word as a word to use
to describe. And didn't even know what he was
saying. You know, it was kind of, but it was not in a,
he did not use it in a derogatory sense, more as a
descriptive,
because that's what, in fact, I had the same thing
happen in law school. one of my professors
describing the situation, he used the word
wetback. Well, this is in Washington, D.C. And he
had no clue that that had negative connotations in
certain parts of Texas. I'm grinning because a
couple, three weeks ago, I filled in for John Hoyle
in one of Tony Brown's classes for the doctors of
veterinary medicine, meat inspectors. Oh, yeah.
And by the time we get to this incident I'm going to
mention everybody was fairly well acquainted and
here's a big good natured black man and I was trying
to get them to think of terms that they should not
use or if they did to be very very careful in how they
used them And I was saying that the word for people
of African ancestry that is easiest to use without
any problem is to say the word black. I said, you
can't mispronounce it. Black and white is
parallel. Because I said, if you use the word
negro, that can get mispronounced a bit and so
forth. Well, about this time, this good-natured
black man raises his hand. Big, well-fed. And he's
saying, well, that reminds me of one. I can't
understand why rednecks get unhappy if one of us
uses that term. Because after all, they call each
other rednecks. Why can't the rest of us? Well, the
whole room exploded in laughter at him and
started... And he was going, oh! And it was as if, my
goodness, I never thought of that. And they were
teasing him about, you know... And I told him, I
said, well, the equivalent on this campus would be
those of us that have a long tie to Texas A&M, we
enjoy telling Aggie jokes. But we sure don't want
somebody wearing an orange T-shirt to tell an
Aggie joke, particularly if it's in front of a
large crowd of other than Aggies. And he began to
say, oh, okay, shake his head. All right, in that
same era, we're at war in Vietnam. What do you
remember during those days about the protests and
so forth on the campus, if any? The only thing I
remember was there was a move towards a war
moratorium. And students wore black bands around
their arms. And that was the most that one ever saw.
Quite frankly, you could you could be at A&M and not
realize that there was a war. I mean, one could say
that in a negative and positive way. I
don't think there was a question that... I mean,
the sense of loyalty was, I guess, what...
permeated the whole thing that, you know, we're
the United States, we're at war, let's support it.
It was that mindset. And so those who were seeking
to wear their armbands, and I remember seeing some
students, you know, you didn't see people
harassing them or chastising them, you know, but
they were a few that would wear their armbands. And
of course, that in itself was somewhat of a radical
act
on campus. Do you remember anything ever
happening in a class that had anything to do with
the protest? No. I think that would be like It would
never happen. You would never think it would
happen anyway. You began as a freshman in Mr.
Rutter's last year. Did you as a student have any
impression of him? If so, what was your
impression? Well, I think all of us who had grown up
around this area particularly had a lot of
admiration for him. He was considered a very...
His name, Olin Teague, all those were very honored
men at the time and I remember meeting General
Rudder once. I can't remember what the occasion
was. It was some function and shook hands and of
course I felt quite honored and quite much, you
know, felt like, wow, this is a real moment. And so,
I mean, I think there was a, it was that sense. I
mean, it was, I guess back in the 60s was the days
where you could tell these stories of heroes and
still feel good about it and not be cynical about,
you know, that we have heroes, and he was one of
those. All right, then he died, and after General
Ludeke was the interim, Jack Williams became
president. Did you have any interaction with him?
Yes, not as a student, but later as assistant
director of admissions. What was your impression
of him? Oh, I thought he was brilliant. He was quite
an eloquent man. He had a tremendous voice. I mean,
his I don't know if you want to call it baritone or
something. He had a great way of communicating. I
remember one commencement exercise, because I
had to help be a marshal at all these commencement
exercises. I remember a speech on Murphy's Law.
And I don't know if you remember, but I remember
hearing that. And of course, he was hilarious. I
mean, in his dry wit and his dry humor, he talked
about Murphy's Law and all the different laws that
would follow. I also had occasion to,
I applied for a job when I was, I had been working
here and I applied for a job with the chancellor's
office. And I was not the strongest candidate, but
I was a strong candidate. And another person got
selected. And so I wrote him a letter saying, Dr.
Williams, I just want to tell you that I am very
interested in working with the university. And it
was a positive letter. I wanted to give it a
positive spin. And I said, I wanted just to let you
know that I appreciate you considering my
application. and look forward to working in the
future with the administration, something like
that. And I just let it go. But then about a week
later, he wrote me a letter. It's his personal
letter. It's, Danielle, I want to thank you for
your leadership. I mean, it made me feel good. He
says, and let me assure you, your future is very
bright here at Texas A&M. Signed, Jack K. Wilkes.
It made me feel great. I mean, so, and of course, as
things happened a year later, a year and a half
later, vacancy came up. I applied and got
selected. So, you know, those things you can't
forget because those are very important. And so
it's those little moments that you, and of course,
one time when I met him at the Citizens Building, it
was almost as if you were going to see God, because
in a huge systems administration building, and of
course I never had been in a huge, magnificent
building like that before, and you saw him sitting
there, and it was a great feeling to know him. And of
course, you'd see him later, he was with the
congressman, or he was with this or that, so you
felt good about having talked to him. I was like, in
my early twenties. Did you think he had a sense of
humor? Yeah, he did. I think he did. I think he had a
good sense of humor. Again, I liked his dry wit.
What struck me was he's not comical, but he was very
humorous. I mean, he could say things, and it had so
much humor in it, but he kept his dignity about him,
which is something that I guess some people lose
when they're trying to be comical or being
humorous. At Clemson, his nickname was Smiling
Jack. That's what the students called him because
they thought that he was always upbeat and
positive. Let's see. No particular relations
with any of the deans while you were a student. No.
Nor board members or anything like that. Was...
Did you and your buddies talk about Vietnam and
what effect that might have on you? Well, yeah. My
lottery number was 239. And the year that the
lottery went in when I was, it went as high as 199.
And I remember sitting and listening on the radio
and they were announcing these over the radio. And
I guess I just sort of like had a, feeling the
relief, like, wow, my number's not going to be
reached. Because they had said a certain number as
far as they're going to go. I didn't,
you know, it's strange, but I don't remember very,
very many who went to Vietnam from here. Now, of
course, they may have and never came back. But, you
know, Brine County Station was a pretty sleepy,
quiet town at that time. And what time do you need to
leave? In about another minute. Oh, okay. Well,
let's stop right here. Okay. Let's stop here.
Okay.
Yeah, I've got a couple of things I need to do.